#Notes and Usage

These scripts relate to crowd-sourced amphora profiling applications hosted on the MicroPasts site (e.g. http://crowdsourced.micropasts.org/app/amphs1/) The three scripts (a) explore the quality of user contributions to a particular amphora digitising task, (b) take the best contribution(s) and create a clean 2D vector polygon dataset and (c) create a manifold 3D mesh.

vesselprofiling_userchecks.R -- An R script that currently runs line by line and needs the user to modify several settings in the top-most portion of the script. It only downloads and processes one vessel outline at a time. You need to know the app name and task ID of the vessel you want. It will go through each user contribution and compile a quick summary of relevant statistics about the contribution, plus a pdf plot of what the contribution looks like. It is meant to be run before running a second R-script (see below) which builds a clean 2D shapefile and other outputs.

vesselprofiling_2Dbuild.R -- An R script that currently runs line by line and needs the user to modify several settings in the top-most portion of the script. It only downloads and processes one vessel outline at a time. You need to know the app name and task ID of the amphora you want, and you must specify the ID of a particular contributor to that task (typical usage) or (be careful) you can ask for the contirbutions of different users to be combined. It will produce several kinds of output: (a) a clean 2d shapefile with attributes that distinguish different vessels parts, (b) a similar shapefile but with handles left overlapping the body for ease of 3d modelling modelling, (c) a pdf plot of the vessel as a guide to the quality of the output. It  is meant to be run after having run a set of user checks (see above) and is meant as a pre-cursor to using a Blender script (see below) which builds a 3D model.

vesselprofiling_3Dblend.py -- A Python script for Blender which builds a 3D manifold mesh from a 2D shapefile that has the correct attribute data.  It  is meant to be run after having run  user checks and the 2d vector build script (see above).
